Abhishek, what are you doing? We're getting late.
Come. Sir, one minute.
Let's go. Let's go.
Sir, I'm doing a couple of payments. Just a second!
Yes, ready?

What are you doing?
Just doing my SIP payments
SIP?
It's not payments, it's investment.
What kind of fund is it?
It's mutual fund.
Is it direct or regular?

Dude, is it direct or regular?
You don't know what that is.
Dude, if you are a do-it-yourself investor
and you pick the wrong kind of fund, you lose lakhs of rupees.
Lakhs!
Here too?
Of course.
So before we get to office.
What is the right way?
Before we get to office, I'll explain both of the kinds and then you decide which one is best for you.

So let's begin.

Sir, okay, tell me, what's the basic difference between a direct fund and a regular fund?

Different stocks or order is placed somewhere else or giving more returns?
How does this work?. No, everything is the same.
No, everything is the same.
So you understand how mutual fund works, right?
Very quickly.
We have a manager who is managing a pool of money from people like you who are investing.
And there is a strategy.
Got it. Fine.
They are investing, yeah, the fund.
Now there are two ways to actually run this.
One way is where you go through a financial intermediary

this could be a bank, it could be an advisor.
Basically an entity who is helping you invest, like an advisor who is telling you what mutual fund is right.

So that is called a regular fund.
And there because the advisor is actually helping you pick the right funds, he takes a commission.

Every fund has a regular mode and a direct mode.
Okay.
Inside the fund itself?
Okay. Same fund.
But if you are going through an advisor who is helping you rightfully,
then you go through a regular fund
and a portion of that is actually something that the advisor keeps.
And that's actually a good thing.
But if you know what you're doing, you want to do it yourself, and you're a do-it-yourself investor like you.

You look at everything, right? What’s happening here? What’s happening there?
That’s what you have taught me, sir.
I have to watch.
In that case, you should pick the direct fund,
which means your money goes directly to the AMC, to the asset management company,

without an intermediary in between and the expense ratio reduces.
What is this expense ratio? What does it mean it reduces? Fees?
Yeah, expense ratio is basically the fees that the AMC charges you for managing the money.

Yes okay, I know that.
And this is expressed in percentage.
So if there is a 1% expense ratio on say, one lakh rupees that you have invested,
then 1% of one lakh is, Rs.1000 goes to, as a fees.
Okay. Okay.
It could be 0.5%, could be 0.2%, could be whatever, but as an example.
So the first thing you should do check, how much the fund is charging?
Oh, yes, yes. What's the expense ratio?
Where to check?
This is the website. Wait!
Here. Here.
Check this out.
Okay, I got it.
This is it.
Sir, don't you think this looks a little high?
No no, you drive.
No, I mean, high is relative, they're doing the work for it.

But generally, over the last few decades, has the expense ratio increased?

Good question.
Yeah, I think it has.
I think it's increased because the competition has gone up.
The expenses of running a fund have gone up.
There is, I think, mostly a lot of competition that has to go, and running a fund is not that easy.

Right?
I mean, there are a lot of expenses. No.
There's their office, there's the fund managers, there's the people working back office.
There's marketing.
There's all these things that it takes to run a fund.
So overall, the cost of the fund is going up.
So the expense ratio has gone up a little bit. Yeah.
But I think what you should understand is the difference between a direct and a regular fund.

For example, this is what you're looking over here.
This is the regular fund’s expense ratio.
Expense ratio, yes.
And if you scroll down here, you'll see that this is the same fund’s direct expense ratio.

There's a difference. Right?
Right. This is slightly lower.
So let's suppose that difference is, let's say, 0.4%
example
0.4%.
Now, take that 0.4% and compound it over the next 20 years.
Assuming you're a do-it-yourself investor, you'll save a lot of money. Right.
Because you went direct,
but generally, 0.5% 0.6%, I don't think that makes a difference.

Compounding is happening on the return side also, and the money that I'm investing, I'm getting returns.

1% is very small amount.
That's a good point.
That's a good point as usual, you are not correct, Abhishek.

I'll tell you what.
Let me just make a quick pit-stop and let me show you something interesting.
Okay?
Here.
So you said a little bit like 0.5% or whatever doesn't make a big difference, right?
Right.
That's what you said, right?
Correct.
Okay, let me show you something interesting, because I'm getting.
No, no, no.
Let me show you.
Today is going to be an interesting lesson in exponents.
In what?
Exponents. Never mind.
Come here!
Imagine you have a single sheet of paper.
Yeah.
Now I want you to double it.
Two sheets of paper.
Now, let us suppose you double these two sheets, again.
How many sheets do you have?
Four.
Correct.
Now imagine you double these four pieces of paper again.
And you have.
Eight.
And that's two is to the power three.
Okay. Why?
Now imagine why I'm telling you all of this.
Yes, correct.
I want you to imagine what is two is to the power 100.
How many sheets of paper, how tall, how high.
And I don't think you will know the answer to this.
I know, I know, I know.
What is it?
This much?
Think big.
Two is to the power hundred
this big!
let's start from scratch.
We’ll start from two is to the power ten sheets of paper.
We are looking at 10 cm.
Okay.
10 cm.
Now let us make this, two is to ten to two is to fifteen.
15 cm.
Not at all.
It will actually be. You see that car?
Double of that car.
So you should go and just take rest.
Two is to ten is ten centimeters, fifteen is double of this car.

You know why?
Because it's, the number is doubling every time, and you can't humanly imagine how much is it growing.

Let's keep going.
Two is to twenty, just adding five more becomes the length of that football field,
you pretend to play striker on the weekends and fail miserably at it.

Two is to the power twenty.
Football field? Correct!
And two is to the power thirty, how much do you think the football field now becomes?
Two to the power thirty
From Jammu to Kanyakumari?
Actually it's from here all the way to outer space.

Right at the edge of space.
And two to the power 40 is… moon?
That's right. Actually not bad. That's the moon.
Now tell me what is two is to the power one hundred?
Sun?
You should pause the video and try to guess in the comments.
It's the sun?
Think bigger.
Sir, what bigger?
It's actually not in… Pluto?
Not in kilometers.
It's not in planets.
It’s not.
It's not in universes.
It's actually in light years.
What?
13 billion light years.
Two is to the power hundred
13 billion light years. My point is very simple
exponential growth cannot be imagined by a humans
because our brains just don't function that way.
It's too big of a number to imagine.
And you can do that with compounding.
In investing, the major growth comes at the end.
So your expense ratio is actually also going to compound or have an exponential effect.

And that will eat up your profit.
Oh, okay.
I was talking about from Noida to Gurgaon?
Yes.
I was saying from Jammu to Kanyakumari?
Yes.
I am still not okay!
In compounding interest the power actually goes to time.

So the longer you are, you actually have exponential crazy earnings.
Okay, sir.
Did you understand something?
Okay, sir. I got it.
So wait.
Basically compounding works both ways, on returns, and on fees, too. Right?
Absolutely right.
Okay fine.
Fair.
Okay, sir, I just have one more question.
Basically, you know.
Of course you have another question.
So basically I have a couple of regular funds.
Now if I switch from regular to direct,
okay, there will be difference in taxes too, right, because I will be exiting from a fund and
probably moving that money to a direct fund.
So.
Okay, interesting.
So you are saying if you exit your current funds because there is a large corpus, you will pay tax on it.

And then you will move to direct fund, then what will I have left because you lose so much in taxation.

That is actually a good point.
So the answer, is I don't know.
The best way to know is to actually calculate it and figure out whether it is or not.
Okay.
But I was actually talking about this with a relative a few months ago.
And I have an interesting calculation for this.
But of course, it's based on his fund.
You will show it right away.
No, no, I'll just send it to you.
Oh okay, I'll open it.
Okay.
Check it out. That's an Airdrop.
Can you see it?
Got it.
So basically if you invested and you switched and you paid taxes
and you did this for a long time again, it makes a difference.
You still make savings despite the change.
So compounding is the 8th wonder of the world, even in expenses.
Sir, this is nice.
So basically you have saved thousands and lakhs of money, sir.
Lakhs of money. Yeah, lots of money.
Correct? That's right.
So now I don't need to do the appraisal.
Right. No, no, no!
But I think there are a few more things you should know when you're switching.
You also have exit load.
When you are taking out.
When you are redeeming the funds and you get to pay something within a time limit.
Yeah, you don't get to.
You have to pay something when you exit a fund.
Not in all funds though.
Certain funds have a time limit, so if you do it before one month, before six months, you get to.
There's an exit load.
You should know if there's an exit load for your investment and include that in your calculation.

This is plus expense ratio?
Yes!
It's actually a good thing, it's to prevent you from exiting too early.
Another thing is if you've done an investment like say the ELSS.
An ELSS.
The tax saving fund?
So in an ELSS fund, you can't actually take your money out before three years.
And you've already taken a tax rebate on it.
So yeah, you can't.
A better advice than don't do it is find out what that exit load is.
Find out what that tax rate is, put in the calculations,
most likely over a long period of time the compounding will still work in your favor.
Oh, okay.
So you could still exit.
But you should know that.
I will check my funds, as well.
So I will just redeem, okay.
Sir, there’s so many fees, exit load, lock-in.
What will remain?
Dude.
One simple way of actually doing it is just doing like an index fund and there the expense ratio.

Sir, Index funds are also mutual funds.
They will also have expense ratio.
Yes.
There will also be a condition I get to redeem and I'll have to pay exit load.
We're gonna get to office and I can't tell you everything in one car, right?
Maybe you can comment if you want us to do something on index funds.
And then if we get enough votes, then we'll figure something out.
We'll do it. We'll do it.
I have a question for you.
Why hasn't your performance been that good this quarter?
How do you know?
I know everything.
How come?
I am your boss.
I have another question for you.
Who's written all these questions in this episode?
She's been hiding in the back, prompting us the question so we could do a good episode on this.
He's the audio guy.
You see what great lengths we are going through to actually explain to you how all of this works.

And yeah, just see you in the next episode, guys.
We are having fun.
Bye bye.
Like and subscribe.
Please do like and subscribe.